README.md, before:

# 📅 Calendar Link

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
|   | Status |
| - | - |
| Build | ![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/node.yml) [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://libraries.io/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://github.com/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/releases) |
| Health | [![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/anandchowdhary/calendar-link.svg)](https://github.com/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/blob/master/LICENSE) [![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://coveralls.io/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) |
| Community | ![NPM type definitions](https://img.shields.io/npm/types/calendar-link.svg) [![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/calendar-link.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/calendar-link) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) |
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

JavaScript library to generate an event link for Google Calendar, Yahoo!
Calendar, Microsoft Outlook, etc.

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/calendar-link.png)](https://npm.im/calendar-link/)

### Usage

```js
// Usage with Node.js
const { google, outlook, office365, yahoo, ics } = require("calendar-link");

// Usage with TypeScript or ES6
import { google, outlook, office365, yahoo, ics } from "calendar-link";

// Set event as an object
const event = {
  title: "My birthday party",
  description: "Be there!",
  start: "2019-12-29 18:00:00 +0100",
  duration: [3, "hour"],
};

// Then fetch the link
google(event); // https://calendar.google.com/calendar/render...
outlook(event); // https://outlook.live.com/owa/...
office365(event); // https://outlook.office.com/owa/...
yahoo(event); // https://calendar.yahoo.com/?v=60&title=...
ics(event); // standard ICS file based on https://icalendar.org
```

### Options

| Property           | Description                 | Allowed values                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title` (required) | Event title                 | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `start` (required) | Start time                  | JS Date / ISO 8601 string / Unix Timestamp                                                                                                |
| `end`              | End time                    | JS Date / ISO 8601 string / Unix Timestamp                                                                                                |
| `duration`         | Event duration              | Array with value (Number) and unit (String)                                                                                               |
| `allDay`           | All day event               | Boolean                                                                                                                                   |
| `rRule`            | Recurring event             | iCal [recurrence rule](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5545#section-3.3.10) string <br />**NOTE:** Only supported by `google` and `ics` |
| `description`      | Information about the event | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `location`         | Event location in words     | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `busy`             | Mark on calendar as busy?   | Boolean                                                                                                                                   |
| `guests`           | Emails of other guests      | Array of emails (String)                                                                                                                  |
| `url`              | Calendar document URL       | String                                                                                                                                    |

#### Notes

- Any one of the fields `end`, `duration`, or `allDay` is required.
- The allowed units in `duration` are listed here: https://day.js.org/docs/en/durations/creating#list-of-all-available-units.
- The `url` field defaults to `document.URL` if a global `document` object exists. For server-side rendering, you should supply the `url` manually.
  Not all calendars support the `guests` and `url` fields.
- If you don't pass the start and end time in UTC, Google will convert it to UTC but Outlook won't, so it's a good idea to use UTC when passing dates and times
- There are some known issues in Office 365 because of which we can't generate a consistent link in all devices (#542)

## Compatibility

This package uses [URLSearchParams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URLSearchParams) (Node.js >= 10, 97%+ browsers), but if you need to include a polyfill, you can include [url-search-params-polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/url-search-params-polyfill) first.

## License

MIT © [Anand Chowdhary](https://anandchowdhary.com/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=calendar-link&utm_campaign=readme)

Commit message:

:pencil: Update README to include UID field details
Added the `uid` property to the event object example and updated the options table to reflect its inclusion. Clarified that the `uid` field is currently optional but will be required in future versions for event identification and deduplication.

README.md, after:

# 📅 Calendar Link

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
|   | Status |
| - | - |
| Build | ![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/node.yml) [![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://libraries.io/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://github.com/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/releases) |
| Health | [![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/anandchowdhary/calendar-link.svg)](https://github.com/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link/blob/master/LICENSE) [![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link)](https://coveralls.io/github/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) |
| Community | ![NPM type definitions](https://img.shields.io/npm/types/calendar-link.svg) [![NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/calendar-link.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/calendar-link) ![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/AnandChowdhary/calendar-link) |
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

JavaScript library to generate an event link for Google Calendar, Yahoo!
Calendar, Microsoft Outlook, etc.

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/calendar-link.png)](https://npm.im/calendar-link/)

### Usage

```js
// Usage with Node.js
const { google, outlook, office365, yahoo, ics } = require("calendar-link");

// Usage with TypeScript or ES6
import { google, outlook, office365, yahoo, ics } from "calendar-link";

// Set event as an object
const event = {
  uid: "your-unqiue-id",
  title: "My birthday party",
  description: "Be there!",
  start: "2019-12-29 18:00:00 +0100",
  duration: [3, "hour"],
};

// Then fetch the link
google(event); // https://calendar.google.com/calendar/render...
outlook(event); // https://outlook.live.com/owa/...
office365(event); // https://outlook.office.com/owa/...
yahoo(event); // https://calendar.yahoo.com/?v=60&title=...
ics(event); // standard ICS file based on https://icalendar.org
```

### Options

| Property           | Description                     | Allowed values                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `title` (required) | Event title                     | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `start` (required) | Start time                      | JS Date / ISO 8601 string / Unix Timestamp                                                                                                |
| `end`              | End time                        | JS Date / ISO 8601 string / Unix Timestamp                                                                                                |
| `duration`         | Event duration                  | Array with value (Number) and unit (String)                                                                                               |
| `allDay`           | All day event                   | Boolean                                                                                                                                   |
| `rRule`            | Recurring event                 | iCal [recurrence rule](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5545#section-3.3.10) string <br />**NOTE:** Only supported by `google` and `ics` |
| `description`      | Information about the event     | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `location`         | Event location in words         | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `busy`             | Mark on calendar as busy?       | Boolean                                                                                                                                   |
| `guests`           | Emails of other guests          | Array of emails (String)                                                                                                                  |
| `url`              | Calendar document URL           | String                                                                                                                                    |
| `uid`              | Unique identifier for the event | String                                                                                                                                    |

#### Notes

- Any one of the fields `end`, `duration`, or `allDay` is required.
- The allowed units in `duration` are listed here: https://day.js.org/docs/en/durations/creating#list-of-all-available-units.
- The `url` field defaults to `document.URL` if a global `document` object exists. For server-side rendering, you should supply the `url` manually.
  Not all calendars support the `guests` and `url` fields.
- If you don't pass the start and end time in UTC, Google will convert it to UTC but Outlook won't, so it's a good idea to use UTC when passing dates and times
- There are some known issues in Office 365 because of which we can't generate a consistent link in all devices (#542)
- The `uid` field is currently optional and will generate a random ID if not provided. In a future version, this field will be required to ensure proper event identification and deduplication.

## Compatibility

This package uses [URLSearchParams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URLSearchParams) (Node.js >= 10, 97%+ browsers), but if you need to include a polyfill, you can include [url-search-params-polyfill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/url-search-params-polyfill) first.

## License

MIT © [Anand Chowdhary](https://anandchowdhary.com/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=calendar-link&utm_campaign=readme)
